<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../book.css" charset="ISO-8859-1" type="text/css"/>
	<title>R Debugger - Important Notes</title>
	<meta name="copyright" content="Copyright (c) 2011-2012 WalWare/StatET-Project (www.walware.de/goto/statet). All rights reserved."/>
</head>
<body>

<h1 class="Head">Important Notes for Debugging R Code</h1>

<h3>Source References</h3>

<p>To enable the complete functionality of the visual debugger for R, it is required that the
	R code you want to debug has the so called source references.  The source references 
	are information attached to the R code and allows StatET to detect where the code is coming 
	from.  See also R help of 'srcref'.</p>


<h2 id="submit">Submit code to R</h2>

<p>For best results it is recommended, that the option <span class="uilabel">Enable extension for 
improved debug support of R code in StatET</span> in the launch configuration of the R console 
is enabled (default setting).</p>
<p><a href="r_editor-codesubmit.xhtml">Submit commands</a> supporting the debugging functionality:</p>
<ul>
	<li>The command <span class="uilabel">Run File in R via Command</span> / 
	<span class="uilabel">Run R-Script via 'source' in R</span> creates source references.  It also 
	updates the breakpoint for the sourced file.</li>
	<li>The commands <span class="uilabel">Run Entire Command in R</span> and 
	<span class="uilabel">Run Function Definition in R</span> create source references and 
	installs breakpoints in the submitted R code.  Furthermore these are the only commands 
	supporting <a href="r_debug-breakpoints-line_breakpoints.xhtml#toplevel">toplevel breakpoints</a>.
	</li>
</ul>

<p>All other submit commands, especially <span class="uilabel">Run Selection in R</span> / 
<span class="uilabel">Run Selection/Current Line in R</span> do not create source references.  When 
sourcing without using the submit command of StatET, source references are created (not the 
improved version), but breakpoints are not updated.</p>


<h2>R Packages</h2>

<p>To attach source references to an R package, the R packages must be installed:</p>
<ul>
	<li>directly from a folder containing the unpacked source package; and</li>
	<li>the environment variable <code>R_KEEP_PKG_SOURCE</code> must be set to <code>yes</code></li>
</ul>
<p>To enable the full functionality, the sources should be in a R package project with the correct 
	package name in the Eclipse workspace.</p>


<h2>Sweave Files</h2>

<p>Breakpoints in Sweave files works only when running the R code directly, not during the Sweave
process.</p>


</body>
</html>
