<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xml:lang="en" lang="en">
<head>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8"/>
	<meta http-equiv="Content-Style-Type" content="text/css"/>
	<link rel="stylesheet" href="../book.css" charset="ISO-8859-1" type="text/css"/>
	<title>R Remote Console - Launching</title>
	<meta name="copyright" content="Copyright (c) 2009-2011 WalWare/StatET-Project (www.walware.de/goto/statet). All rights reserved."/>
</head>
<body>

<h1>Launching</h1>

<h2 id="configure">Configure Console</h2>
<p>Before being able to use an R Remote Console, it is necessary to configure one.</p>
<p>To configure a console, navigate to 
<span class="uisequence indent">Run &gt; Run Configurations...</span>
and created a new configuration of type <span class="uilabel">R Remote Console</span> if not yet 
done.</p>

<p>The user is invited to assign a name to the particular configuration and
adjust the relevant settings in the tabs of the configuration window.  
The most important tabs are dealt with in detail in separate paragraphs
below.</p>

<h4>Overview</h4>
<p>The launch type allows to specify how the connection to R will be established.
StatET offers three methods to connect to an R engine started using the RJServer library.
To initialize a new R engine, you need at least one configuration of the type:</p>
<ul>
<li><b>RJ - Manual:</b> This connection type allows to connect to an R engine started manually; or</li>
<li><b>RJ - Start over SSH:</b> This connection type allows to start the R engine over a SSH connection automatically.</li>
</ul>

<p>The third connection type <b>RJ - Quick Reconnect:</b> doesn´t allow to initialize an new R engine
but allows to reconnect quickly to a running R engine in the network.  In contrast to the other 
connection types, which can used for reconnection too, you don´t need to specify the address in the
launch configuration explicitly.  It shows a dialog to browse the running R engines on the entered servers.  
A launch configuration of this type can be used optionally if
one use often several R sessions.</p>

<h4>Connection settings</h4>
<p>The <b class="uilabel">Address</b> for an R engine has the form:
<code class="indent">//host[:port]//rsessionname</code>
The host system is specified by its name or IP address.  The port is the TCP/UDP port of the
RMI registry and can be omitted if the default port 1099 is used.  The 
<code class="indent">rsessionname</code> can be chosen freely but must be a unique
name in the registry.</p>
<p>The <span class="uilabel">Browse...</span> button opens a dialog showing all R engines available 
on the specified servers in your network similar to the reconnect dialog.</p>

<p>The <b class="uilabel">Username</b> is used when connecting requires authentication. This depends
on the configuration of the server.  See the startup script of the server for detail about the
available methods.</p>

<p>For <b>SSH connection</b>: The <span class="uilabel">SSH Port</span> is the TCP/UDP port of SSH 
server on the remote system (default is 22).  The host of the address, the username and the SSH 
port defines the SSH address used to connect to the SSH server.</p>

<p>The <span class="uilabel">Remote Command</span> is run through the SSH connection to start the 
R server on the remote system.  It must point to a startup script like <code>startup.sh</code> 
provided by the server bundle.  Adjust the path, if required.</p>

<h4>R Options</h4>
<p>The R options let you configure the initial R working directory and the R start-up options.  
The working directory must be specified as local folder which is mapped to an <a href="r_remote_console-resourcemapping.xhtml"
>remote folder</a>.</p>

<h2>Console View</h2>
<p>The console view for the remote R engine has additional commands to:</p>
<ul>
	<li>Disconnect from the active R session. The current evaluation in R is not interrupted.</li>
	<li>Reconnect directly to the disconnected R session.</li>
</ul>
<p>The commands are all accessible in the view menu of the remote console too.</p>

</body>
</html>
